But that's what I mean when I say you don't want to have to do anything on account of suffering.
You don't want to have to manage it, you don't want to have to do this when it arises like
this, so do that when it arises in a different way. You want to find a place and that's what
Dhamma is all about whereby you can't even suffer in the first place. So you're not
just free from any actual suffering, you're free from possibility to experience suffering.
And in a way that did say similar, the Buddha, the Dhamma doesn't free you from this
unpleasant experience with that, but it freezes from the nature of experience altogether.
So again talking about the impermanence of the stone or the tree or modern science
of prune, the molecules are changing. Who cares? It's not a little relevant.
Like you can say that the moon is like this, the sun is like that, these are the chemicals.
It absolutely makes no difference to the existential aspect of your daily life where you feel.
Well, it's another perception, it's another view, it's another external explanation.
So you have to be honest with yourself and see whereby there is a suffering and you start
using a method to deal with that suffering, be it science or the sutras or psychology or
psychotherapy or any other religion. You have to be honest with yourself to see if that
method pertains to management of suffering or to actually uprooting it all together.
And you'll find out that Dhamma, only Dhamma only correctly practice uproots the suffering.
Everything else is a management and it's a response to suffering. The whole psychotherapy
thing that's big in the West is just managing the symptoms, not being able to cure yourself
in the actual illness. And that's why we say people, it's wrong. We say, well, it helps.
Well, it helps on a level of potential and a mundane level. If you were to know clearly
that what you're doing is not the medicine, medicine against suffering, it's only managing
the symptoms. If you're very, very clear on it, like you know when you're taking a drug
that can screw you up, so you're very careful, you know, okay, well, he just wants you
too much so that I can go and find a proper drug. Then, sure, okay, when the mind is weak,
there's no right view inside. People will need that kind of support. But actually actively
practicing, nobody will do it that way. Why? Because if you already have that much self-transparency,
you find that help in the suit as already. You wouldn't need a Western take on kind of
psychological quasi medicinal, who knows what explanation of the mental states. But people
don't see that, which is why basic, and the reason why it's wrong is because then they
assume that's the practice of done. It's the same, which is why there are lots of monks,
lots of senior agents, they go to the psychotherapy workshops and stuff, as if that contributes
to their demo practice. As if that can contribute to the demo practice. It can't. Because it
just pertains to a completely different thing. And the worst bit about it is thinking that
by doing that, you're doing demo. Means then you won't be looking for the right cure
because you think you're having it. If you think the management of a symptoms is the
cure actually of your illness, you won't be looking for the right cure of your illness
because you're thinking of curing it. So you have to be clear with yourself to recognize
whether it's really curing it or is it managing it.
And if there was something you need to manage, well that's what seal is for. Again, psychotherapy
is not needed. Western science is not needed. It's actually a wrong view. It's a view that
assumes the public world accessible to all of us at the same time, whereby matter is
measurable. As will the same matter is always below your feet. Never, it can never appear
in your experience. All you're going to have is number upa, kind of normal in relation,
a designation in relation to the offender resistance. So things are much more subtle and much
more contemplative complicated than taking up a ruler or doing like, you know, some
equation in physics or whatever else. That's explanatory. It defines the world in its own
terms, terms that are developed by science. And that's what I can hear in the economy.
You can't use science or any other discipline of that kind to explain your experience because
your experience precedes them. Whether your scientist feels for whatever or nothing, you
exist. So you can then go and develop yourself, concoct, scientific explanations, observations,
and then use them to explain the tools that you used to recognize those explanations.
And in other words, you can't use your senses to access the existence of your senses. Your
eye cannot see your eye. You can't hear your own ears. So relying on the measure of
the sound to explain your ears, it's in a state because it requires your ears beforehand.
So you can't use it to explain its roots because it's a result of it, not a cause of it.
Which is why the only way to access these things is phenomenology. And by that, I don't
mean Western philosophy. I mean phenomena, knowledge of phenomena, phenomenology, which
is what pertains to the mind, which is what the mind is. Well, within your understanding
how would you call what samadhi is? Well, I was just reading the agenture. It's the establishment
of the mind. The mind is established properly. And understanding is a form of samadhi, which
is why samatha and vipassana, again, preceded by the right view, not without view. There
is no vipassana and there is no samatha. For somebody who has a right view, samatha
and vipassana go hand in hand, inseparable. Because that's one big thing, people think,
oh, there is a study, and then there is a form of meditation. Your study is your meditation
if you do it right, and your meditation is your study if you do it right. Yes, sure,
there is the aspect of gaining information, gaining knowledge, no doubt about that, but
there is just preliminary. What exactly do you mean by a establishment of the mind? Well,
if I try to explain the solution to a problem and you understand it, your mind is established
upon that understanding. You gained that understanding. How is it different to a concentration? Well,
it's not different. No, it requires concentration, but the concentration is misunderstood to
be that which shuts things out, as opposed to that which includes all things in. And
that's the other sort of where the Buddha gives a similar for man, first to keep an eye
on, I don't know, 50 children. He can't chase all of them all the time. Because if he
goes after one specifically, he loses the sight of all the others. So he has some wisdom,
so he recognizes that and then he finds an elevated place in the yard where he can climb
out. And then from there, see all children all the time, he wants, which means he keeps
an eye on all of them by stepping back. And that's also for one point in this. Usually
people think you're focused so hard until all the other children disappear and then you
forget that you are supposed to take care of 29 children more, not just one. So you're
keeping attention to the future, right? Okay. So that's why the Buddha said that the foundation
of every practice of samadhi is mindfulness. Every jhana is underlined by mindfulness, like
established by mindfulness. And that's mindfulness. So that this one has to have, must have the
right view in order to attain jhana. No, not necessarily, but that's the thing. See,
because the practice of jhana is along the right view, naturally, in its nature, which is
why the Buddha praised it. Theoretically, it's possible to have jhana without having the
right view, but you would have to never ever hear even a single stance of Buddhist teaching.
Yeah. Why? Because it's really so close. So protrusion can get there. Theoretically,
let's say somebody does have jhana's. He never had a bruise. For you, it would probably
be enough depending on how established he is in his jhana's. Just one sentence, attaining
to the essence of the dhamma. And he'll be coming out if not, if not, if not out of
it all the way. Which were the cases in the sutras. Why? Because the minds were actually
established. So all of the pollutions were cleared. They just needed the last tweak, the last
kind of drop of dye that will color everything rightly. So, but today, it's quite unlikely
that the person would have jhana's, and not be a sort of one, at least. Because, you
know, like, again, if you talk about jhana's, means you have kind of cross Buddhist teaching
means you have read. So, if you are actually developing jhana's, you will be developing
your right understanding through that. That's why it's, it's off my level of what's the
right meditation? Well, first of all, in some of the episodes, he said that every aspect
of the right view is right because of the right view. So every, every aspect of the
know-believe for puff is right because of the right view. So some samadhi is, is right
because of samadhi. Everything is right because of samadhi. So, provide the person as the
right view. What would be the right meditation for them? Establishing with mind through jhana's.
What are the suckless jhana? It's establishment of mind. So, if you mind is established to
such an extent, well, to a certain extent, for different. So, it's not, again, a famous
son upon a satisuit, that the people teach meditation bringing you into jhana, you
don't, not necessarily. You enter jhana if you know how to enter jhana. So, establish your
mind in that way, if you know how to establish your mind in that way. Anapunasati never
mentions jhana's. Anapunasati suit. It doesn't talk about jhana's, it talks about mindfulness.
Practicing an anapunasati develops the fourth foundation. Mindfulness, fourth foundation,
mindfulness develops the four powers, four powers develop the seven light and five
practice, or something like that. Mind makes it up on time. But that's the point. There's
no mention in jhana's, which is enough to undermine the kind of common perception that
you automatically enter jhana through watching your breath. Then I get this experience, or
something like that. Now, jhana's establishment of mind, and when the Buddha did talk about
that, he listed all sorts of things you can use to establish your mind upon, and thus
enter jhana. Anapunasati is just one of them, staring at a dead body, staring at decomposed
bodies. Practicing anapunasati would, and then there was casinos. You can use casinos
to establish your mind in jhana's, like the earth element, water, and various things.
And then also, the sutras, whenever the sutras talk about the establishment of mind, there
are jhana's, then there are those immaterial. They refer to immaterial jhana's, but they're
actually immaterial establishments of mind. They're different kinds. Equally wholesome, like
not exceptional perception, and infinite space, if you're conscious, and so on. Again,
people assume that's like the extension of the four jhana's, or they're all in the
four jhana's, or those whatever. I kind of remember the commentaries, those schemes
and divisions. Now, all of those are the establishments of mind, same like tank casinos,
earth, water, fire, blue, yellow, red and white, and then infinite space and infinite
consciousness. So, the Buddha talks about them, I think only one or two sutras, but in the
same way, the key establishments is mind upon the earth element. He knows the extent of
that. So, he recognizes that establishment, he's confident, because of that refined
establishment, he abandons everything else that's inferior to that. And if you look, what's
inferior to the element of earth, element of resistance, you know, what, everything.
You know, everything, particularly in your experience, inferior to the establishment
upon element of earth. Then, so, a person can do that, a photojournal can do that. But
the Buddha prays it because it's still a great deal of wisdom. So, if somebody does that
on their own, and then he has the dharma, they won't like it would be easy for them to
really understand it. But then he also did the refer to it in the same sense as he referred
to such a show. They're like, what's out there? People, if they don't make the effort,
they don't see that there is beyond. So, they don't see the danger, the gratification
and the escape in regard to a casino, which is usually the same thing he would use for
a sensuality, the same way. The gratification, the danger of gratification and the escape.
Then, the target sees that, and then he abandons it because of that. So, he goes establishable
modifying casino, modifying casino, more. But you can use, you don't have to establish
all of them. You can use any of them. You can establish yourself for any of them and
then see this. So, that's a different way of looking at your establishment. But because
establishment is wholesome, when you establish, then you see the danger, the gratification
and escape in regard to that refined wholesome establishment of your mind, means you did
purify your mind. Like, if you manage to abandon and let go of that refined thing, like
what can be said for all those course unwholesome things, they just fall off never to return.
So, he goes and he talks about, like, so the earth, water, fire, about every casino. But
then he says, well, some of these people don't see the danger and they get it, the target
that does. Which means seeing danger and escape. Danger gratification and escape in regard
to any particular casino is the development of wisdom, which is a different thing. But
then it wouldn't be there if you didn't establish your mind. So, through the establishment
of your mind, you can see things particularly and then be completely free regardless of
whether your mind continues to be established or not, which is what I want you to be.
Then he goes to say about the consciousness casino, like the most refined casino of all
and everybody, every salmon and brown, they agree on that. And then somebody might establish
the mind upon that, the event of not just all of the inferior, but all the other casinos
to establish upon the ultimate refinement of the mind and says, and then the target sees
the danger, the gratification and escape in regard to that. So, the basis for wisdom
should be basically the establishment of mind. If there is no basis for wisdom, the mind
is not established properly. Sometimes you can have mind established properly, but then
you don't know what to look for. So, you don't pursue that as basis for your wisdom.
In that way, it's like Samadhi's necessity. You cannot not have a degree of your mind
establishment and expect wisdom to arise. But then you cannot have right view and correct
instructions and expect to wisdom to arise because you wouldn't know what to look for.
You wouldn't know how to recognize danger, you wouldn't know how to discern gratification
and you wouldn't know what escape is. Not knowing those things means the wisdom likes
development. So, first John, I can be based for that second John, I can be based for that,
any John, I can be based for that, any casino can be. So, there are certain right meditations
in themselves, and none of them is actually right if there is no right view enabling them
to act as basis for wisdom. And Buddha said that, without a right view, John is just pleasant
by the here and now, nothing more. But it's developing wisdom in regard to that, that
it's called, your basement, wasn't it? It was the basement, so that.
So, concentration is a character, one of the characteristics of establishment of mind.
Well, right concentration. Again, we'll be right only with the right view.
Well, what the right view rises to two factors, the word of another, and the proper attention.
The proper attention. But the thing that you've got to know with proper attention is, then
so, and proper attention is, is the form of samadhi.
Yeah, knowing how to establish your mind.
That's why, for the right view, you like, you don't need genres or something, but you
need to cheat a limiter. You need to have grasped the, the, the sign limiter of your mind,
like the phenomenological appearance of your mind, which is there as a phenomenon, ambiguous
for most people to not see it, because they're only used to, they only qualify as real what
they experience to their senses. That's real, everything else is not real. So, when they
deny their own thoughts as real things, how far you move they are from seeing that, like
the subtle shape of your mind, the expanded mind, you know, this is the expanded mind.
That's it. You don't go in more detail, because it's not more detailed. That's the detail
it has. It's a loop. It's depressed. It's, it's contracted. It's expanded. It's, it's
elated. It's not. It's general mood. Well, like, recognize your mind on those terms,
on those ambiguous terms. Means grasping the signs that your mind shows you. Well, the
side of the mind means the way it has appeared. Like a sign. Like, ah, you see the contours
of something. Ah, you grasping the signs of it.
They don't see it. They don't see it. People see you their mind that don't know it. Well,
because how did you do that? Yeah, I mean, in a sense, it just really depends how we, how
we choose to use the word because like, you have no choice but to have your mind there.
So, it's not that, through not seeing their mind, the mind is not there. It's there. They
just don't have a clue. They ignore it. Yeah, exact ignorant. So, are you seeing in
terms of knowing it? No, they see the mind means they know the mind. They recognize
the mind as such. So, would I be wrong or rather, would it be wrong to use the word focus?
Yes, I would. You probably would. Yeah. Because focus just takes people out. Yeah. You
get focused on something. Ah, well, you should get focused on something and then start
looking at yourself being focused on something. That's the proper development of my thoughts.
Focus yourself on something, if you want. But then develop notions of tokens, pick up
the tokens of the phenomena of you being focused upon something right there. So, you get
focused on something and then you see yourself being focused on something. And, and that's
it. That's the beginning. That's the recognition. Well, that can lead to recognition. Basically,
you need to recognize the principle of like, well, like peripheral vision. If you look
at things directly, well, you don't see what's peripheral to it. So, you have to learn
how to, which is what proper attention is, how to be able to start noticing things peripherally
and more generally, without overretending them, without making them into actual direct, which
removes the nature of peripheral, which means something else is in peripheral and you're
not seeing it as an established phenomena. Because there is a domain of direct focused
actually in front of you. Simultaneous to that, there's a domain of peripheral, a negative,
a background, general, ambiguous. And, they both exist. They're both real, the sun in
their own domain, yeah. So, for as long as you're using the tools, the assumptions of based
upon actual indirect, you'll never be able to access peripheral in its own terms, which
means it's on the main, which means you're not actually peripheral, you're just thinking
about actual and then developing views about that. So, that's well a question of science,
anything exact sciences which will require a focus, external measure, they're basically,
well, self-defeating when it comes to practicing the dama, because they cannot in their nature
pertain to the domain of peripheral. And we start off with being focused. Well, as long
as you know, that's just one aspect of your experience. But the thing is, if you then,
if you see yourself being focused, if you know what you're supposed to look, that the
moment you see yourself doing anything, that will be a form of focus, you don't have
to be specifically focusing yourself, of this object or that object. You have to establish
sealer, so there is no unwholesome focus or any kind, then upon whatever you're focused
at the time, you can see yourself being focused on that, because that's the point, that's
how to develop mindfulness, not by choosing a magical focus or finding a magical object
of your focus. So, in that sense, you should really make your effort to find out how to
get established in that peripheral vision, because that will make you focused actually,
directly, upon whatever, whatever is present. Which also means, your focus of any kind will
not be dependent upon anything external, but it will be dependent upon your mindfulness,
for which you're fully responsible, which you're in control of your own focus, whatever
you mind, you're controlled wherever you mind goes, through that mindfulness, through that
base of mindfulness.
So, going back to that example, you came up with that, so you look after the 50-year-round,
but you're not trying to connect to the 50-year-round. No, that's not looking after exactly,
because while you are connecting, means you're losing sight of the other, because you can't
connect to all of them at once. That's like recognizing the importance from unimportant.
No, the point is to keep an eye on that, focus on that, you keep an eye on that.
You also keep an eye on that, you also keep an eye on that, but not do you, do you, do
you know, some of the getting some of the falls case, or it's crying, but you're just
getting lost. That's kind of extending the simile, but no, the simile just refers to the
actual practice of samadhi, which you can see, it's completely founded upon mindfulness.
So, rather than thinking of concentration and focus, if you want to think about samadhi,
even in a particular term, you should think in terms of unwavering mindfulness. When
you're so mindful, that you are not unmindful, means you are established with samadhi.
So then you say, you have to actually make the effort to realize to understand what mindfulness
is. Exactly. And through understanding mindfulness, then you will develop that mindfulness. It's
not like one thing that, no, it's through that understanding, you will develop mindfulness,
you will be mindful. That's how the whole dhamma works. Like if you were to understand
what arantipis, you will be on a way to become an arantipis, if not the arantipis. So you
can't entertain the notions of thinking you know what arantipis and what dhammas and
meditation is, and at the same time, they'll teach you how to do it.
Remember, when I was practicing, I like to turn to general awareness, it relates to
how I was working in the shop and I was doing this in general when I was trying to be mindful
and I was doing that. You lost the sight of what was going to be for you to talk to me.
Yeah. That's kind of. Exactly. Exactly. It means you were so concerned about keeping
around 50 children, you started thinking about about 50 children and lost sight of them.
They were right in front of you. So you can't, you can't have disconnected from whatever,
which is why like the Buddha refers to mindfulness of the body and bodily postures, because that's
always the anchor right there in the actual touch of your senses. So it's always in the
relation to that. So yeah, oh 50 children, what if I lose them, what if I lose them,
and by getting caught up in thinking like that and being really considered not to lose
them, you start noticing them. They're right off. Because if you've got the body posture
and the general awareness, not just focused on the body posture, solely on that or focused,
solely on general awareness, but I mean both of those, that is where you've, that is
the, it's the occult, it's a principle of symphony, yeah. You can't, so you can't find
it. You focus on something, looking at the spine, looking at your breath, seeing that
doesn't be a good lesson on the nature. Yeah. We want to, we want to see that. Yeah,
Nietzsche is undermining, like the premise that undermines whatever you're established
upon. So it's exactly that. Say general awareness in the present body, like you wouldn't be
generally aware if your body is not alive there, if your organs are not still operating.
It's the view that undermines in this side of the notion. Yeah, if you take your,
now your opinion of opinion, now your opinion of mutual understanding itself, each other.
So, if you, if you, if you're, if you're taking up now your opinion, you want to
deperminance by seeing independence simultaneously while you are still holding it. Up on Vinyana, if
you take Vinyana, you see it simultaneously depends upon number Rupa. So it's either
there is no in between or left or right where you can step aside and then look at
both. So either this is determined by number Rupa, Vinyana or it's Vinyana,
determined by number Rupa. That's your experience, always, one or the other. So
by recognizing this general in the particular actual body, you will be stopped, like
not knowingly in the beginning, but you will be ambit in those principles. And
actually you can even continue the reflection as I just started saying, you
wouldn't be aware of anything, no matter how general particular, if your body is not
alive here. Like the organs that you have no control over, your heart, your eyes,
if they're not there functioning, just your awareness will be inconceivable. You
wouldn't be able to think. At the same time, if there is no thinking with any kind,
you wouldn't know those organs as organs. You wouldn't know anything as anything.
It's just inconceivable. Things without a name are inconceivable. That's number Rupa.
Like you can't have just a Rupa, pure enough. You only can have a name of the Rupa.
Yeah, you would say it's the old and appears. But the reason why appears is because
consciousness is out there with the Rupa. So in that, but that's a different topic.
The point is, you can see your day-to-day mindfulness is fully dependent upon
like random organs of your living body operating in the function that you
cannot control. If that changes, you're dead. And they will change.
So at the same time, you are mindful generally and you're mindful of the very
like underlying foundations of your own existence. You realize, well, whatever I do,
mindful, you're unmindful, aware of unaware, it's fully determined by these
random organs that I'm no control over. Then you must start thinking about
your random organs as more fundamental. But then it goes, well, that's just my
thought of that, which a random organ is. So that's your name, which means
random organ would be inconceivable if there is no, even a degree of forgiveness in
regard to that. If the name of an organ doesn't appear, if that it doesn't appear
in experience as anything, if something doesn't appear, you can't even conceive it.
So that's enough to show you that, well, these random organs operate, but they
wouldn't be operating if there is no consciousness in regard to them, if there is
no awareness in regard to them. So I mean by that, even the living heart
would not be living heart, if there is no consciousness associated with the
body as a unit. So in that sense, you start recognizing the consciousness is
on the level of those random organs outside, that below the threshold that you can
see or receive 20 cents. It's the foundation of your senses. So it's not in
your head or inside the viewer on this side, and then Rupa is on that side.
Rupa and Vinyana are out there, and the kind of result of that is Nama, Rupa
and Vinyana. But that's what meant before when I said, well,
whatever you think is your thought, or presentation, or phenomenon, or
dama, whatever we want to translate it. And that's all you can ever have in
regard to different things, but even you say different things that's another
thought. So you can never step outside of your mind and say, this is the real
thing. No, the real thing is not only because your mind knows it as such.
That's the priority of the mind. The first, the first verse of Tampa,
mind is the forerunner of all things. It's structural forerunner.
It was being concealed. So when you talk about Rupa or any other
aggregate, you're talking through your mind. So to speak, in other words,
you have to know that when you say Rupa and you say this, we say that
that cannot stand for the actual elements. Assuming that it does stand means
you conceive those elements in your thoughts. Your thoughts are
conceiving. And that's exactly Mula Porya. Assuming the discrepancy of any
kind means you give them existence in your thoughts. So the, like the
you know, the five core, the mastering your thoughts and the one who
he's thought altogether, he's another. The danger there is, when you say
thoughts, people think abstract kind of theoretical proliferating.
But not looking at the door is a thought experience as well.
Now another danger is becoming like falling into solipsism and they're all
telling my head. Well, a thought that things are in your head is another
thought that it's present and that cannot be in your head. So a thought
that my head, the space, this opposite, that's all again, a phenomenon
that has a reason on the level of the mind, which is where things arise.
And within that, you can distinguish different types of phenomena, but they
all have things in common, which is, they share the same nature of
appearing, manifesting. And on that level, they're all phenomena. They're
all phenomenological, which is what they're all dumb. Like all of the
aggregates are dumb. And some cars. Not the same time, obviously, but
they serve as that which determines and that which determines depending
on where your attention is. You can't step outside of it.
That's what I said in our opinion. It's always either of them.
So every experience is by the number of phenomena, either two
convenience, like two of them being combined or three of them.
No, every experience, no, no, no, every experience, depending again on
the approach, but in this sense, every experience is either founded
or the number of phenomena. And by that, I'm determined by it.
As far as you can. You can't have the number of phenomena
that you call in front of you. You will be one of them, which means
the other one can be, if seen correctly, can be the...
The undermining factor that will remove your sense of self.
If you see that my sense of self depends upon that which right now,
while I'm holding this is me, depends fully upon that which is me.
And actually, I just gave you the example, rather generally,
but it's a good start. Your organs, your bodily organs.
Like you have to bring down, you have to recognize the connection
between the presence of a random working heart and your entire life.
And literally, working heart is like an object, how they're in the world.
But it's an object because of which the object exists as phenomena.
So it's a particular type of object that enables your experience as such
because it's paired with consciousness, matter and consciousness.
But none of which you can actually access or have any...
Sorry, control or input over.
There are three beyond outside of your reach.
So all you're going to have is a presentation or their appearance in a way.
So you can know the direction they appear from.
But you can't call them. You can't get, because if you would,
I don't, you will not be possible.
So if the fundamentals, if the foundations of your experience,
would generally be within your reach,
there would be a self, there would be a creator,
there would be a person that you can take the ownership of.
But there aren't, which is why the sense of self,
whatever else, it's completely unnecessary.
It's a parasite, it's not, it can't be there.
But not knowing that it can't be there, it's there.
There is no room for a vigil in the five aggregates.
Not knowing that there is no room for a vigil,
not fully understanding what that means.
You make the room.
I must, yeah, it's not like, it's not exactly an easy method.
So the good, the good way to start is when you,
when you take up a contemplation,
you need a soup turn of five aggregates and unconscious and stuff,
instead of trying to figure out what it all is,
start by undoing what you think it all is.
In other words, the word that talks about Nala or Nala,
say Nama Rupa, Nya Nama Rupa is okay, so Nama Rupa,
well, before you can understand that,
first, you have to purify what Nama Rupa designation stands for
in your experience.
What consciousness stands for in your experience?
So if you were to take up five aggregates and name them,
in English or Sinhala or whatever,
just repeat the name two or three times.
Do you know at that time,
what that matter stands for in your experience when you say,
ah, matter, and see directly what that matter is?
And you realize you don't.
You take all of them and you realize you do use them.
You do have some general notion of what they are,
what they pretend to, but you don't actually understand what they are.
So you realize the practice is completely the opposite direction,
you'll be naming it.
So I'm trying to figure it all out,
you have to undo it to the extent necessary when the recognition
of what they are takes place,
based on the external instruction laid down by the Buddha.
Yes, that's right actually.
You have a lot of time,
I'll just say some stuff like,
you say, five aggregates,
I tried to reach five years and I'm lost.
So now I'm trying to, you know, get them back.
So you take them, you can't change the road.
So take them as they are,
Rupa Veduna,
Sinus and Kalabinyana.
And literally just a matter and then ponder.
What is that matter?
How would you describe it even in your own terms?
Do you see that which matter is in your experience
when you make after designation matter?
Same for the feelings, same for the perceptions,
same for the intentions, same for the conscience?
You said to keep drilling in what,
as opposed to building up artworks.
So in the sense of how to make it vividly relatable.
Well, you have to make it clean, accurate,
in a sense whereby when you read the Sutta,
when you read the five aggregates,
you immediately see what that is in your experience.
You have to stop and think about it
and bring your life back to you.
So you have to make it vividly relatable.
Well, you have to make it clean, accurate,
in a sense whereby when you read the Sutta,
you can bring evoke the memory of what you thought was.
Which is why how people became arrangements
just by listening to Buddha once.
Then you exactly what he was talking about.
They didn't know the time,
but when he was speaking,
what he was referring to at the time.
So by seeing those things,
they are at the arrangement and full understanding.
So the reason why we don't become arrangements now
when you read the Sutta is because the terms that you read,
you hold completely wrongly.
So they don't actually pertain to that,
which they actually are.
If they would,
you would arrive with understanding, inevitable.
That's why corrective practice in Dhamma
has to result.
Well, it has to have the result.
You can't be corrective practicing
and not arriving anywhere.
It just doesn't work.
So if somebody tells you
you have been practicing Dhamma 40 years,
but it's not about becoming Sutta
on the staff,
you turn away that moment
and don't listen to what they say.
Because actually,
if somebody has been practicing
50, 40, 50, 60 years,
and not even get the right view,
it means they will be wasting the time for 60 years.
So rather than presenting that as some sort of skill,
as some sort of great achievement,
should be embarrassed.
And as the child said,
the same,
if you're not Sutta
for the first five years,
it means you're wasting your time.
And people are not
because they misdirect the effort,
so they don't have enough effort,
so they don't bother
in the first place or whatever.
So again,
it all comes back to
that self-transparency,
like knowing for yourself.
Having that as a goal,
there's a reason
the Buddha laid it down
and explained it,
and encouraged amongst the country.
If you were to understand
what Sutta part is,
you'll be a Sutta one.
If you were to understand
the freedom from three first feathers is,
you'll be free from the three first feathers.
There is no discrepancy
to an understanding
and then actually,
the reality.
You know, understanding is
Obviously needs to be developed
to extend necessary,
and then you can start
fully understood.
You see,
now you can't separate
five languages.
You can't separate them.
No.
No, change the order
or look at the individual.
You can individually
be reviewing your designations
of what you assume
the five aggregate are.
But even that should be done in the order.
It's not a matter.
And feeling in regard to the matter.
And perception in regard to the matter.
And your intentions in regard to the matter.
Because you're not.
There but you think consciousness
is in regard to the matter.
Okay.
In regard to the matter.
You don't lose the sight of the matter.
Exactly.
That's how you keep the order.
That's how you affect them all.
Try to understand the consciousness.
Yeah.
Because if you just take up consciousness
randomly,
I mean, are you just assuming it now?
Again, through your own assumption,
the consciousness can stand randomly
independent of anything else.
You can't.
None of them can,
which is why it's always,
they're five heaps.
They're five aggregates,
not two and three.
You can single out one of them
while all of them are present.
So on the basis of all of them,
you can append one
with the other more particular.
Which is what you...
You are taking one of them.
So one of them are all of them.
And that's another thing
you should start thinking.
You say five aggregates,
it's not somewhere else.
Try to run out while we speak your experience.
That's what five aggregates are.
So instead of trying to think about what they might be,
you start looking
in the general experience
that you're mindful of right now,
and discerning within that.
Because they're there.
So if you forget that they're right here right now
and go looking for them,
even if you find something,
that's something you'll not be there
because of which you started looking in the first place.
Because it was right there.
So that's what I mean.
Like, oh, you start reviewing.
You start basically learning how to discern
because you know,
you were told you have faith enough.
Did your experience as a whole?
Actually, peripheral,
whatever else,
whatever other approach you did,
it's present right here right now.
All of them,
your experience is the five aggregates.
Any experience you had,
any experience you have,
will be the five aggregates.
And with a set of them,
in some way they recall
five lifestyles,
500 lifestyles,
but they'll recall
if these five aggregates
are one specifically among them.
But that's it.
It's all within that.
So you start training yourself
how to discern them
within this mindful picture
that you established upon.
Now,
we already know
who they are.
Have you tried to discern
that you were given
out of the four levels of frequency?
Oh,
whatever you heard elektronik
this said,
a lot of radiation.
LI is re oluyor...
no electricity is allowed,
because a state of gravity
doesn't need to be
heating up?
I don't know.
I ako
not
sorry for your pause.
I hope
The matter is normal, but what is it?
Sorry?
Is it proper?
No.